My guest today is Alex Cornell. Alex is
probably the most talented bio and
healthcare investor that I've ever met
and as you'll see he is an encyclopedia
of all things going on in life sciences.
Alex has been teaching me this topic for
more than five years and every single
one of our conversations is about as
deep as this one that you will hear
today. We cover every single aspect of
what makes today's life sciences world
so interesting starting with this
concept of the health stack. The things
that we can do both offensive and
defensive to extend our life based on
the evidence that he sees in the most
excited companies of today. We talk
about cardiovascular disease,
neurodegenerative disorders, metabolic
disorders, cancers, and beyond. And
finally we finish with his remarkable
personal story. I hope you enjoy this
great conversation.
You and I have had these conversations
now for many many years. Uh we've been
partners and friends for a long time and
so it's hard to know where to begin the
conversation because I suspect we'll go
for hours talking about drugs and bio
and healthcare and outcomes and a
million things that affect us all. You
you have this cockpit like view into
like what's going on in the state of
medicine today. How would you describe
the state of the union? The daily
cockpit view that you get of the whole
industry like give us a dispatch from
that room. Like what what do you see
today? When I look at this moment in
terms of where we are in medicine
and I look back over my my 20 years of
building and backing biotech companies,
I would say that 2025 is probably the
single most exciting year in my entire
journey. So to unpack that, what we're
seeing is um GLP-1 medicines are showing
us what happens when we get to the root
of disease.
These medicines have the potential to do
everything from protect us from being uh
diabetic after being pre-diabetic all
the way through lowering our risk of
having a heart attack or a stroke, uh
protecting our kidneys, and soon we're
going to see the opportunity to protect
us from developing
um addictions to to uh alcohol and
drugs.
Um so, a a profoundly important single
medicine. Because these medicines are
incredibly powerful, and they can do
wonders for people's long-term health,
what we're seeing is that the adoption
of these medicines have exceeded almost
everyone's expectations, including my
own, which were pretty darn high.
Um and I think it's easy now to conclude
that this is a class of medicines will
easily be in excess of a hundred billion
dollars a year in revenue.
And so, what gets me fired up about that
is not necessarily this once-in-a-decade
hundred billion dollar revenue
opportunity that exists within GLP-1s.
What gets me fired up is that it's
actually the first commercial proof that
we are ready
for what I think we're going to look
back on in time as a once-in-a-lifetime
trillion dollar revolution in all of
public health.
And in order for that to be true,
there's going to be layers of attack
that are needed to help us live our
longest and best lives. I think one of
the things a lot of people don't
appreciate when I meet them and we start
talking about where medicine is and what
it can do
is that incredible scientists have
already
cracked the code on most of the
medicines we need to protect us from
most of the diseases that will claim
most of our lives.
>> Mhm.
>> That's a really important point, because
what that means is that there are
tons and tons of people that have
traveled through all different mazes to
arrive at the biological target and come
up with a medicine against that target
that can help us to live longer and
better lives.
And so, when we think about what is the
gap that exists in the world today
between the reality that when we look at
any expected lifespan charts,
they haven't budged in decades.
In fact, like the last major advancement
we had an inflection was decades ago on
the back of uh
antibiotics, vaccines, and better
hygiene.
We've gotten nowhere since then.
And the gap is not necessarily needing
more medicines,
it's actually pointing those medicines
at the impact that they can have.
And so to me,
what I'm excited about about the GLP-1
opportunity is we're seeing the first
commercial proof that we're ready to
head in that direction. The reason that
those sales have exceeded our
expectations is people are taking into
their own hands their future. People are
basically voting with their feet saying,
"I'm done waiting to reactively go and
treat myself for the diseases that I
backward-lookingly manifest.
I'm ready to go get after and help
myself to the
>> longest and fullest.
>> I wanted to zoom in on a concept that
you and I have been riffing on a lot
recently, which we're calling health
stack.
And stack is a term in technology, like
your tech stack is all the various
components that you use to create your
overall thing. We thought this idea
could be applied to health. There's
we're all interested in our own health,
it's a universal interest and concern.
Maybe riff a little bit to begin on this
notion of the modern, evolving, and
emerging health stack.
>> a health stack looks like,
um
has a couple of different elements to
it. It has elements of offense and
defense. And on the offensive side of
the equation, um
are some of the basics that we all know
about. It's everything from uh proper
nutrition, strength training, um proper
monitoring and testing, and doing those
activities in a systematic way, um and
tracking that data, and building off of
it over time. And I think later on we
could talk about how AI can play a big
role in enabling that to reach its its
sort of final chapter of of of what it
takes for impact. What I find most
interesting about it is
if we think about five core dimensions,
not only are they within our hands to be
able to be proactive about protecting
ourselves, but we have the medicines to
do that. So to me the five key layers
are lipid optimization,
it's cardio-metabolic health,
it is neurocognitive health,
it is
inflammatory health, and our blood
pressure. When we think about the lipid
optimization, we have and our bodies
produce cholesterol. And there's a type
of cholesterol called your LDL
cholesterol that's really dangerous,
and it's dangerous because this
cholesterol builds up in our bodies over
time and it's slowly accumulating in our
vasculature, and as it accumulates it
gets to a point where it causes a
blockage.
That's a heart attack and a stroke.
And we have medicines today, whether
they're statins to PCSK9 inhibitors,
that can do wonders to reduce our level
of cholesterol.
And most middle-aged men and women
walking around have somewhere
between a 30 and a 50% probability of
having a heart attack and a stroke
sometime between the time that they turn
40 and the time that they turn 80.
And to me that's tragic because we have
the medicines that exist that can help
us to dramatically lower that risk to
sub 10%.
Looking at the next layer in
cardio-metabolic health, what we're
talking about is the the glycemic
environment in our bodies combined with
visceral fat. These are two major
drivers or or impediments to our
long-term health.
To give you an intuition for these,
we've got basically at the higher the
level of glucose in our bodies, think
about it like the more brittle it's
making our vasculature. And so if you
are both having lipids accumulate in
your body and your vasculature is
getting more brittle, you're only force
multiplying the risk that you ultimately
have one of those horrific heart attacks
or strokes.
Um but we can do something about that.
We've got amazing GLP-1 medicines that I
started with that from clear data at Eli
Lilly show a 94% reduction in your risk
of moving from being pre-diabetic to
diabetic. Um we see amazing data uh in
terms of what it does to both help us to
lose weight and have category shifts
going from obese to overweight, from
overweight to normal weight. It's a
game-changer in terms of our long-term
health.
Moving down to neurocognitive health, um
the data is not out yet, but later on
this year uh we're going to see the next
step for what are called anti-amyloid
medicines. Medicines that can go right
at the heart of the accumulation of
plaques, this time not in our
vasculature, but but in our brains that
lead to all sorts of damage and and
cognitive decline. And we've got
medicines today that can go right at
those plaques, bust them. And what
Lilly's going to probably show later on
this year
it's my guess, but I think the data
really supports it and we'll see. What
they're going to show is that getting at
those plaques earlier before they
accumulate as significantly is going to
show dramatic effects on protecting us
from developing Alzheimer's. Um moving
on to um inflammatory health. Um you one
of the things I think people don't
appreciate is that the food we eat is
actually quite inflammatory. And because
we have over time moved from being
hunters and gatherers to being able to
have as much access to Pop-Tarts as we
want. I love them, too. You don't get
one, you get two. Um
the we overeat to a point where it
drives an inflammatory response in our
bodies. Um and you can think about that
whole equation of All right, if we have
both lipids accumulating
and our body has a high glycemic
environment making our vasculature
brittle, And the same food that we're
eating is driving an inflammatory
environment around it.
Oh my goodness, it's like a ticking time
bomb for all of that to go off. And not
only is the inflammatory environment of
our body
implicated in driving an increase in
cardiovascular events, strokes, and and
heart attacks, um
but also a whole set of inflammatory
diseases that span everything from
atopic dermatitis to ulcerative colitis
and and Crohn's and Crohn's disease.
Um and then finally blood blood
pressure. And maybe this one's very
intuitive to people, but you can imagine
that um
both if we are living high-stress lives,
if we're not working out, if we are
developing obesity, uh we have this high
glycemic environment, so our vasculature
is brittle, our LDL is mounting, and on
top of that, the pressure going through
that system is going higher and higher
as we're aging and doing nothing about
it. Um
Oh my god, that's just another force
multiplier. So all of these axes that I
define as the five key layers to
defense, to the defensive side of a
health stack,
each of them has medicines available to
help us control our fate.
Each of them has medicines available
that if we could get on them early and
be proactive about where we're going
with our health, they will undoubtedly
add an extra decade of life to our
expected lifespan and have the potential
to take curves that have been dead flat
for decades and and drive one of the
first inflections ever.
>> Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours filing expense
reports, reviewing expense reports, and
checking for policy violations. So they
built their tools to give that time back
using AI to automate 85% of expense
reviews with 99% accuracy. And since
Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs
on Ramp, and my business does, too. To
see what happens when you eliminate the
busy work, check out ramp.com/invest.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why. To
achieve enterprise adoption at scale,
you have to deliver on core capabilities
like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs.
That's where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started.
Felix by Rogo is a personal finance
agent that turns a single prompt into
finished client-ready work using your
firm's own templates, context, and
standards. Send Felix an email like,
"Take these comments and turn them for
me." or "Update my tracker with the
context of these emails." or "Run the
ability to pay math on this buyer." and
Felix sends back finished PowerPoint
decks, Excel models, and sourced
research.
Felix works the way your team already
does, delivering work quickly and
accurately around the clock. Learn more
at rogo.ai/felix.
I want to spend a little bit of time at
each Let maybe not all five, but at
least at least four of the five levers.
To let you explain what you're seeing
and learning, especially from your perch
as an investor. One of the One of the
things that I think makes you so unique
is that ultimately you're trying to make
money on all this stuff, and you're
doing so with extreme care and
precision, on a very sophisticated team,
and lots of data. And so there there's
money on the line here. So this isn't
just You're not someone that is reading
something and trying something. Like it
it comes out on a scoreboard. And I want
to start with GLP-1s because it's
obviously the thing everyone understands
uh the most. It's visceral. Maybe to
begin would be for you to tell us what
specifically you're seeing in '25 and
'26 that is so exciting cuz these things
have been around for a little while.
People are starting to get on them
earlier than that. What What in What is
the inflection? And then I want to get
into the actual
mechanics of how it works. The the one
that's about to come out next year which
seems maybe even more revolutionary than
semaglutide and tirzepatide. What
happened recently that has you so like
extra excited about them?
>> Maybe one of the things most people
don't realize is that
there are a couple different injectable
GLP-1 ones that are on the market today.
And we have some of the first orals that
are coming to the market now and more
that are coming.
And
these medicines exist at lots of
different doses.
And I think one of the most interesting
discoveries that I made over the past
year in just looking at all of the data
that we get to consume as investors
is I wanted to know the answer to okay
Wall Street is very focused on the next
GLP-1 having more weight loss and more
weight loss and more weight loss. And
I'm sitting back and thinking to myself
I don't know if that's the right focal
point. And one of the most interesting
findings from diving into the data
is that people are not solving for this
massive bazooka. People are solving for
something that helps them to lose some
weight, stabilize, and be there.
And I think that's really interesting
because what that means to me is that
what people really want is something
that's going to give them a health
advantage
but it's going to be incredibly
tolerable. And what we find is that you
go higher and higher in doses, the
unintended consequence of that is yeah,
you're going to have more weight loss,
but there's going to be a whole host of
other side effects that come with it.
And so that is different than in most
medicines where we're trying to maximize
the efficacy of the medicine, really
where Wall Street minds typically tends
to go.
What people are maximizing for here is
like how do I get on these things and
then stay on them?
If you marry and that So that to me was
one of the big unlocks for 2025 was this
idea
that people want to protect themselves.
If you marry that with the next big
discovery from 2025 is that typically
the way medicines are commercialized is
you have big pharmaceutical companies,
Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk, that have
armies of sales reps that are out
everywhere calling on doctors making
sure they know about their medicines
pitching the attributes and why they're
the best in the class and why there's no
other option that that their patient
should be pursuing than their medicine.
And as you can imagine that's a very
capital intensive exercise. It's a very
human talent intensive exercise. Um and
what we saw interestingly is that Eli
Lilly uh pretty early on last year
pushed more aggressively into a
non-traditional way to get these
medicines in the hands of people. They
they added to their legions of sales
people a digital front end um in Lilly
Direct that allowed people to get a
prescription from their doctor and go
get the medicine direct from Eli Lilly.
It was the one of the first big insights
that we can that the consumers want to
be able to get these medicines
themselves um and not have to go through
traditional means to get them. And as
you fast forward towards the end of 25,
what we started to see was that oh my
goodness, more than half of the new
people joining are coming in directly.
So hold that with the third point that
comes from 2025 which was all sorts of
of theater and dramatics around
compounded GLP-1s.
And what we learned from the compounded
GLP-1s
was that not only do people want
something that's going to defend them
and be tolerable. Not only do they want
something that they can get through all
the frictions of the system and just hit
a button and have it come to their
homes, a real consumer-like product,
but price matters a ton. Through most of
2025 and the average, you know, monthly
cost of a GLP-1
was was north of four $500.
Thanks to our administration, those
prices are coming down, and I think
that's really good. And it's
particularly good because what we
learned from the um the compounded
versions of GLP-1s was that there is
massive price elasticity in this market.
Compounded GLP-1s cost about half as
much per month as the
uh you know, traditional approved um
GLP-1s by Lilly and Novo. And uh we were
collecting data that was suggesting to
us somewhere between 15 to 20% of the
market that you couldn't capture through
scripts was actually flowing um through
groups like Hims and Hers and other
sources where people knew they wanted
the benefits and wanted to be proactive
about their health. They wanted to get
these GLP-1s, but they couldn't possibly
afford four or $500 a month, but they
could afford 200, 250 bucks a month. And
so to me, that's profound because you've
got a compounded version that hasn't
gone through any clinical trials. You
know nothing about the manufacturing,
but you know that these medicines are so
important to your health that you're
willing to take the risk, not only the
safety risk of the medicine, but all
these risks of these unknowns of where's
this even coming from?
>> Mhm.
>> And because you can afford it, go take
it.
And so I left 2025 thinking to myself,
oh my goodness, we're finally starting
to see people step up and vote with
their feet. They said, I want the
benefits of these medicines. And now you
get to 2026, and this is this is the
absolute game changer.
In 2026, we now have an oral version of
Wegovy.
Um and this medicine has launched over
the last couple months.
We are seeing every week the oral
version of Wegovy is setting record
after record after record. And you might
think, yeah, of course, like who wants
to inject themselves once a week for the
rest of your life? But it I don't really
think that's what's driving
uh an almost 4x relative launch cycle
for the oral Wegovy versus the most
recent injectable launch Zepbound.
People want these medicines then the
lowest end of the curve
that doesn't cost 500 a month, it
doesn't cost 250 a month, it costs 150
dollars a month. And so now we've seen
at the at the lower end of the curve, if
we get to an 1800 dollar a year cost,
these medicines fly off the shelves. And
to put that in context, prior to the
launch of the oral Wegovy,
just a few months ago, the GLP-1 market
was moving at about a 200,000,
you know, recorded new scripts per per
per week. 200,000 new people getting on
these medicines per week. The most
recent data that I looked at this past
Friday says that that is now moved from
200,000 a week to 300,000 a week in just
a few months time.
>> Crazy.
>> We have to take these incredible
learnings from the commercialization of
GLP-1s and the the most logical
conclusion is that, yeah, people are
ready and people do want to go and be
proactive and arming them with the stack
that can help us to all live an extra
decade, really focusing on hard on what
does it take to close that gap
between invention and impact. Uh when I
say this trillion dollar revolution,
what that means really is this trillion
dollar reduction in our annual health
care spend. And I think that that's
really possible now.
>> I want to spend some time explaining
what is actually going on with this
class of drugs. Starting with
semaglutide, sort of the single acting,
going to tirzepatide, the dual acting,
going to the triple acting one that'll
be coming out this year or next year.
Um can you do your best to explain
what this thing is and what it does? I
think people's original conception was,
it's a drug I take and I lose weight. I
think you have a really interesting way
of explaining and understanding these
things as maybe the most important
modern drug. So, it seems worth spending
some time just explaining literally what
it is and what the science progression
has been and where you see it continuing
to go. Like this isn't static.
>> of people don't realize these medicines
have actually been around for 20 years.
Um some of my first exposure to GLP-1 as
a drug class actually happened in my
early days entering the industry as a as
a young biotech investor back in 2005 um
with Amylin Pharmaceuticals having what
we thought at the time was the most
miraculous breakthrough. So, GLP-1 is a
hormone that our bodies naturally
produce. Now, the problem with this
naturally produced hormone is that once
it's produced by our bodies,
it only lasts for about 2 minutes before
it's gone.
So, if we just pause there, what does
that mean practically? Okay, if you were
to take human GLP-1 and we would be
injecting it, we'd have to inject
ourselves 30 times an hour for the rest
of our lives to get the benefit of what
we can today with either one pill a day
or one injection a week. The science
behind moving from uh protein that lasts
for 2 minutes to a protein that can last
over a week is a dramatic uh
transformation. What's good about that
is it is a a hormone that's already in
our bodies and it's a medicine that
we've got data on for over 20 years. And
so, we know a remarkable amount about
it. Not just because it's been around
for 20 years, but it's now been in
millions and millions of people.
Okay, so how does it actually work? What
happens is when we eat food, at some
point that food makes its way to our
small intestine. And when food gets to
our small intestine, it's what triggers
the release of GLP-1 in our bodies
naturally.
And so, that that GLP-1 molecule travels
all over our bodies. Interacts with
receptors in our stomachs that helps to
slow the digestion of food. It also
interacts with receptors in our brains
that help us to feel fuller, longer, to
feel satiated.
The combination of those two mechanisms
of action are what allow us
to turn off the food noise, that allow
us to
seek out and consume far fewer calories
than we've ever done before.
Um in addition to that, it does an
important role in regulating the
production of our insulin.
It It interacts with the receptors on
our pancreas that that triggers the
release of insulin. It plays a big role
in not just having that sugar not affect
our vasculature, but also making sure
that that sugar is not destroying our
kidneys. So,
the mechanism and the science behind it
is actually pretty well elucidated.
Biologically, we know how it's produced.
We understand all the different places
in the body that it interacts. And when
you think about all the places in the
body that it interacts,
it then becomes no surprise that it's
had such an incredible range of effects,
both from protecting us from from
becoming diabetic to reducing the risk
of having heart attacks and strokes, um
to lowering our level of inflammation
because we're consuming less food and so
we're having less of an inflammatory
response to that, um all the way through
to helping us to lose weight, which is a
bit of a virtuous cycle in terms of
lowering our blood pressure.
So, when you look across the five axes,
the five layers of defense
that are mission critical for us
maximizing the number of years that we
can live and having the most life in
those years,
I fundamentally believe there's no
molecule that's more important than
GLP-1 across that entire axis. And when
we think about the different forms that
it's available to us in, um
we could really crack the most important
code, which is moving from something
impractical, 30 shots an hour, to the
early days with Amylin Pharmaceuticals
of a twice-a-day shot to where we are
today, which is not just longer-acting,
once-a-week versions, but far more
potent, meaning we need far less of it
and it actually starts to get to levels
that we can inject that have incredible
pharmaceutical properties to them.
And so as we think about it, I think the
next axis to think about is not just,
you know, the form by which you get it,
oral or injectable, and not just the
duration of the dosing, orals we take
every day. Today we take injectables
once a week. There's some amazing ones
that Pfizer just acquired that look like
it might be a once a month. Amgen's also
working on a once a month, might be once
a quarter. The duration of time between
those doses is really important because
the easier it is to take a medicine, the
more likely you will be to stay on these
medicines and have the longest term
benefit from from them.
Um and so the I think the next important
axis to to to then focus in on is
how do we think about uh dose and the
tradeoffs between semaglutide and
tirzepatide? So, semaglutide being
Ozempic and Wegovy, tirzepatide being um
Zepbound and Mounjaro. Our team's
fundamental perspective is that they all
achieve the same goals. They were just
novel IP strategies to achieve those
same goals. And I would say that they're
all pretty much interchangeable. How do
we think about them from an investment
perspective and a human impact
perspective?
They end up actually both of those
perspectives kind of come together
because when we think about investing in
medicine, the key question that we're
focused on is why does a medicine have a
right to win?
And of course, for a medicine to have a
right to win, what we're essentially
saying is that this medicine is going to
really have a differential impact for
people such that people should choose
it.
And so um
the right to win analysis comes down to
also the different segments of the
market that we're thinking about. And to
put a framework around this, we always
think about the obesity market uh as
having uh three main segments. So,
people that are overweight, which are
basically BMIs between normal, you know,
roughly 25 and 30, obese, which is
between 30 and 40, and morbidly obese,
which is north of 40.
And so, when we look at the aperture
from BMI of 25 up to a BMI of just under
40, that's where most of the patients
are today that require reactive
treatment. I would argue in the future,
we could talk about why GLP-1s might be
appropriate for just about everyone.
Um, that's because the reality of it is
as you go from your adolescence to your
50s and 60s, on average people are going
to pick up about five BMI points.
And so, being able to take a medicine,
even at low doses, even though they
haven't been tested in those
populations, I'm willing to bet would
help protect people from that five-point
increase that puts them in harm's way
and and and puts that to bed.
But when we look at the market today,
that pretty much from that that BMI of
25 to 39, they are well served with any
of the available options on the market.
Where we still need some help and I
think where there's a right to win is
really in that BMI zone of 40 and above.
Sadly, these people are at a level of
body weight that requires um incredibly
long titration to get up to these high
levels of the hormone.
Um, and they need to have much more
dramatic reduction in their food noise
to be able to bring their weights down
from a zone that is incredibly dangerous
just given the amounts of visceral fat
that they're carrying around down to
levels that are going to give them much
much more sustainable life and a much
smaller life.
>> I have a very basic question. Would
there be any difference in outcomes if
we simply ate the same exact input that
we eat on these medicines? Like if if
instead of taking the medicine, I just
ate exactly what I would eat on them,
but did figured out a psychological way
to deal with the food noise and just
like not not not eat when I'm hungry
effectively?
Is there any difference do we think in
outcomes? And I'm especially thinking
here about like alcohol addiction is
seems to be one of the things that gets
addressed by these drugs. That seems
unrelated to how much I eat. Um, so it
seems like an independent thing that's
being positively affected by the drug
beyond just like which calories and I'm
putting into my body.
So what is there something else going on
here beyond just literally what I'm
eating as a result of taking these
drugs?
>> Yeah, I think eating is definitely a
part of it and it's a major part of it.
So look, if we could all be disciplined
and we could all get on a proper diet
where we're selecting the right foods,
eating the right amounts of them,
um, and and staying disciplined to that,
you wouldn't really need these medicines
for the purposes of of managing our
weight.
Um,
but I think that's only going to cut at
the weight part of it. I think
unfortunately, if your biology is wired
such that you have a family history of
diabetes and you are pre-diabetic and
and on the precipice of of turning
diabetic, um,
we're starting to to be in a place where
we're just not producing the insulin
that's required to be able to take up
that glucose that's coming from the food
that we're eating. And so yes, by
consuming fewer calories and and less
food,
we can we can hit part of that, but I
think it's unknown as to whether that'll
be enough to be able to undo your
progression to diabetes. And so I might
say you probably still need those
medicines for that. I think on the other
side of the equation, um,
uh, connected to that uh has to do with
addiction.
Some sense you could say that like food
is a form of addiction. And so while
consuming fewer calories will help
protect us from the vicious cycle of of
over consuming food,
I would say in terms of the addiction
data that will start coming out over the
next year or so,
you would lose that benefit. Like you
would you would lose the essentially the
the free gift of protecting yourself
from being addicted to drugs, alcohol,
or gambling. And that comes from the
signaling in the brain, the satiety
access in the brain that both cuts
across food and also, you know, some of
these these other, you know, not not
great behaviors. And then I think
there's an open question on on what just
consuming food would do for
cardiovascular outcomes.
Um we've got compelling data right now
at a Novo Nordisk over the last year
that basically shows that by taking
GLP-1 medicines, there is a, you know,
north of 20% reduction in our risk of
having a heart attack or a stroke.
And what I thought was pretty profound
about the full data that they put out is
that that was independent
of weight loss.
And so, I think that speaks to me that
there's just another axis and another
biological driver that's
that's driving this cardioprotective
result. And so, we might forfeit that.
But
without a doubt, if we could actually
get access to great food and we can eat
the right amount of it and stay
disciplined, that would that would take
us a long
>> But it seems like summarized, there is
more going on than just that. Like like
the data seems to suggest that even if I
could perfectly eat, I might still reap
benefits in these other ways from these
drugs.
Um is there any before we I want to talk
about the next layer that it was the
first layer you listed in cardiovascular
and PCSK9 drugs to really drive home the
point of existing drugs, before we get
to all the exciting new stuff, which
we'll talk about as well.
That there are existing drugs which
could have radical impact if like
everyone was on them.
>> There are basically three different
dimensions that are preventing people
from getting maximal benefit of a
breakthrough medicine that exists and is
right here for all of us. Those break up
into, in my mind, complexity, cost, and
convenience.
So, like
I think all of us have had the
experience of of of learning that we
have some health problem and wanting to
go do something about it. And so we have
I've kept you up to date along the way,
but it was amazing to me to just to to
actually realize myself to practically
have to deal with our health system and
all of the different branches that it
took from recognizing that I had a
cholesterol problem
to 2 years later finally getting access
to the medicine that could help protect
me from that problem.
And uh it's everything from you want to
go see a doctor because you get a blood
test that says, "Hey, I got a problem."
To learning that well, the next
appointment's only 6 weeks out and then
I go and of course they want to redo the
blood test. And so you could just see
like the friction in our system mounts
and mounts and mounts.
And eventually I think a lot of people
just give up. It is really hard to
navigate that system.
And I think given
you know, what we're seeing with GLP-1
medicines and what we're seeing that the
direct-to-consumer side of that is
driving most of the adoption today, I
think we have to start asking ourselves,
"Why is it that I can go on my iPhone, I
can go to Amazon, I click a button and
the next day I can have toothpaste,
but it takes me an incredible journey,
hundreds of phone calls, multiple doctor
visits,
being pricked and prodded multiple times
just to protect myself from having a
heart attack?" Like that doesn't make
sense. And so I think we have to balance
like the opportunity for for health
impact of this amazing medicine that we
have with just the reality of how darn
complicated it is to navigate through
our system.
Next is cost. Most medicines that we
need to be on for the rest of our our
lives that are going to be providing the
chronic care,
the different layers of that defensive
health stack that will protect us from
these diseases,
those medicines today are priced as
similarly to acute treatments, yet they
need to be taken over decades.
So we have a a timeline problem. We have
a horizon problem. And I think that
there's a lot of innovation that can
occur that can occur around pricing
models
if the world is is is moved from where
we are today, which is waiting until
there's a problem, waiting until it's
almost too late, and reactively treating
it to proactively getting out ahead of
disease.
And then I think the final part of that
is compliance, and we alluded to that a
little bit, but the reality of it is um
we all know that medicine only works if
we take it. And it turns out that
because of the complexity of the system
in getting it, because of how expensive
these things are
and at the end of the day, because we're
all human, the more frequently we have
to take a medicine, the harder it is to
go get it, the more times we have to go
to the pharmacy, the more times we have
to make that decision uh over the course
of the year, the higher the probability
we're just going to quit. And that's
just human nature, myself included. And
so um
your compliance is like this invisible
barrier to all of us realizing our our
best health outcome.
And so, on one hand
wow, I mean, GLP-1 medicines is an
example. It's miraculous. We went from
from twice a day to once a week, and now
we've got versions that are once a
month, maybe once a quarter. That's a
huge unlock, in my opinion.
>> Maybe now's the time to tell a second
drug story, uh a far less well-known one
than GLP-1, which is PCSK9.
I I I find this story to be so
interesting
uh for so many different reasons, but
maybe most of all because it seems
closest to a free what I'll call like a
free lunch drug that exists, and because
it helps deal with cardiovascular uh
disease, which is something that
everyone's, you know, in their family or
themselves probably dealt with at some
point uh it seems incredibly important,
uh close to as important as as the first
one we talked about. Can you tell the
story of this specific drug, like what
what it does, how it works, the impact
it might have?
>> The headline here is PCSK9 medicines are
amazing because what they do is they
today can lower our our bad cholesterol,
that LDL cholesterol, by 50%
and we now have outcome studies
in patients at different degrees of the
of of having a high cholesterol having
um significant protection from ever
developing and having a heart attack or
a stroke. And so in patients that have
previously had a heart attack or stroke
we can reduce that risk by over 20% in
the future and for people that are at
high risk of having a heart attack or a
stroke, the medicines that are approved
and on the market today can lower that
risk by about 25%.
Um and so these are are incredible
medicines particularly because heart
disease is still the number one killer
in the US today. So the way these
medicines were discovered is uh from
human genetics. And so what we can do
from a human genetic perspective is go
around the world and look at different
populations of people and study what are
some of the attributes uh and some of
the advantages of different populations.
And it turns out that there's a
population of people in the world um
that have a genetic mutation that
conveys a massive advantage.
They have a mutation in their PCSK9 gene
which means they don't produce the PCSK9
protein.
Now what we've learned from both
observing that that village and
understanding, you know, the
cardioprotective nature of that genetic
defect
what we learned is that the production
of this PCSK9 protein
um actually interferes with our body's
own ability to clear LDL cholesterol.
And so what happens is the more PCSK9
we're producing
the fewer particles of LDL that we can
clear, the higher our cholesterol grows
over time, the more those little
particles are invading our vasculature
and starting to mount up until we get to
a point where there's a blockage.
And so,
um,
recognizing the import of of that PCSK9
protein, driven from the observation of
human genetics, and from data that
showed in these populations of people
with longitudinal studies over 15 years,
the fact that they were genetically
deficient in the production of the PCSK9
protein led to them having an 88%
reduction in the risk of ever developing
cardiovascular disease.
That was miraculous. And so, what the
pharmaceutical industry sought to do
was, "How can we
>> replicate this?"
>> Exactly. How do we get that advantage
into the hands of people? And so, they
came up with injectable biologic
medicines at first, um, that you could
inject and would go and find their way
in your body to that PCSK9,
uh, protein and bind to it and make it
so that protein couldn't bind to your
LDL receptor.
And that was the beginnings of those
medicines, but what innovators then
sought to do next was, "How do we make
it easier for people to take those
medicines and get the benefit?" And so,
the next big innovation in that space
was moving from injectable biologics or
monoclonal antibodies
to what's a new modality called, um,
RNA interference. And what these are is
another form of subcutaneously injected
medicine
that makes its way down into your liver.
And it had the attributes of these being
very long duration molecules and made it
so that we didn't have to inject
ourselves 26 times a year, but maybe
only twice.
>> It's incredible when you think about
seeking out a population that has a
natural advantage, figuring out what it
is, and then conferring it to others
through a drug like this. The dramatic
reduction in cardiovascular incidence of
people of course the genetic group 88%,
but also the people that take this drug
is so interesting.
I I always wonder, the body is so
complex,
such a complex system. There seems to be
very few things in biology that just are
like one use or one explanation. Like
there's all sorts of stuff going on.
What are the trade-offs in in I'm
interested in both PCSK9 and GLP-1 since
we've talked about both. It just seems
like there's always a trade-off. Like
there there there really aren't usually
free lunches in markets in nature and in
biology.
So, what's the skeptic's point of view?
Like if I could somehow fly in the
smartest, you know, data-driven
scientific skeptic of the use of these
drugs, what would that person say?
>> PCSK9s are very much more that free
lunch than than GLP-1s. GLP-1s are easy.
I mean, GLP-1s have real toxicity
associated with them. So,
without a doubt, we've got we see in the
clinical studies significant rates of
nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea are the
first symptoms that emerge that cause a
lot of people to quit these medicines
early. And if you look
past that and you look to people that
have been on these medicines for longer
and longer periods of time,
you know, you look at the labels of
these medicines and the clinical
studies, you know, there's risk of of of
having the development of
gallstones and and pancreatitis.
And and of course, these are
issues that would emerge just from
having weight loss in general, which
adds to that list, you know,
muscle decline as well. These are all
consequences of losing weight and losing
weight quickly over a period of time.
But when you look at the other side of
the equation, the benefit that you get,
the fact that these are so protective
across so many different axes and the
data's pretty clear. Not only will they
protect us from developing diabetes,
obesity, and cardiovascular disease.
When you look at the implication of
those diseases on expected human
lifespan,
we're talking about the aggregate of
those diseases costing us 5 to 10 years.
It's very much well worth it for people
to take the risk of developing um, these
these other sub-liabilities that you can
do something about by just stopping the
medicine
um, for the benefit. Uh, and so I think
there is a real trade-off, without a
doubt, it is not a free lunch for
GLP-1s. And but for PCSK9, it's it is
pretty much a free lunch. Um,
you know, there was uh, a ton of concern
in the early days, like, you know, what
happens if your LDL goes down to zero?
>> if doesn't LDL do good things, like
>> E- Exactly. It's there for some reason.
And it turns out that that LDL is
produced in lots of different places in
our bodies. And it turns out that you
can you can basically pin that PCSK9 bad
protein down to zero.
And the best we can do in terms of
reduction of our LDL from really not
even in humans, but in animal models, is
something in the 80 to 90% zone.
And because we have people that are
walking around with mutations where they
don't produce any PCSK9 and they live
incredibly long, healthy lives and don't
have the vicious fate of having a heart
attack or stroke, I think we've got the
combination of of animal model evidence
that suggests we really can't get LDL to
zero, combined with the fact that we've
got genetically advanced people walking
around that aren't even producing the
protein to the same degree as others,
um, that this one is very much a free
lunch in that
>> Do you think everyone in the world will
be on this particular drug at some
point?
>> I would I that would be a dream for me.
I think a big dream for me is that
everybody anywhere who wants to have the
maximum level of cardio protection could
get access to this medicine and could
stay on it. And I I would argue
because it is more asymmetric, it is
more in the degree of that free lunch, I
would argue that if you just project
down the road longer term,
this medicine should be far bigger in
terms of the number of people that that
are on it and the revenues that are
associated with it than than GLP-1s.
That's not what's playing out right now.
And it's not playing out right now
really for two reasons. Um, one,
GLP-1s have this amazing attribute to
them that you take them and very quickly
you start to have some side effects, so
you know you're on them, and you start
to see the benefits. When you compare
the two, it's easier for medicines where
there's an acute, clear,
easily measurable benefit for people to
stay on them.
Unfortunately, in the setting of
cardiovascular disease, and particularly
thinking about bad cholesterol,
this is to me
the most dangerous setup because
you don't feel anything if you have a
high level of cholesterol. Uh, you could
think of it as a silent killer that's
just working in the background, slowly
accumulating in our bodies.
And you can be doing everything right
and being at your peak physical shape,
and then all of a sudden out of nowhere
you can have a heart attack or a stroke
because if we don't pay attention to the
levels of this bad cholesterol in our
body, they can sneak up on us and claim
our lives.
And so to me,
because the reward is so asymmetrically
favorable versus the risk, because the
earlier we can intervene with the
accumulation of cholesterol in our body
and keep that at bay,
the greater the likelihood is that we're
going to get through the rest of our
lives, even if other things manifest
like diabetes or or high in-
inflammation or our blood pressure goes
up, we're going to be able to be right
at the core of the problem and keep that
as low as possible, meaning that we've
got the lowest level of accumulation
across the
our vasculature.
>> I think the number three and four
killers, after we talked about metabolic
disorders
and and cardiovascular, are
neurodegenerative and cancers. And so
I'd love to spend a couple minutes on
each of those. Neurodegenerative in
particular, Alzheimer's drugs, seems to
have been kind of this wasteland. Like
we don't We really don't understand
what's going on. Um, and as a result we
haven't made a lot of progress at either
protecting against or treating something
like dementia, Alzheimer's. What is
going on in the world of science and in
the business of of pharmaceuticals to
address this specific problem.
>> Yeah.
It was it's it's been a wasteland for
for decades and and I think
um
I think we finally cracked the beginning
of the code but not the full answer. So,
what we found today is in patients that
have confirmed levels of plaques that
have developed over decades in their
brains.
Um we now have medicines that people can
take that will start to break up those
plaques and remove them. Now,
unfortunately, and this will be
intuitive, if you get to the patient
that late in the disease, a lot of of of
damage to the brain has already happened
because you can imagine like these
plaques are building, they have to go
somewhere and they're they're causing
death and destruction of the tissue
around them.
And so, today, we've got some amazing
medicines that are both Biogen and Eli
Lilly that if you are late in the
disease progression of Alzheimer's, you
can start to slow the decline. We can
slow that decline by about 30%. And so,
intuitively, that just gives us a lot
more years, you know, at the baseline
level of cognition that we have versus,
you know, really declining much more
rapidly. It turns out that if we can
identify
a patient that's at risk for Alzheimer's
disease earlier and earlier and earlier.
If we had a test available to do that,
well, then it makes perfect sense that
if we can start giving people these
medicines as early as possible,
not only will you be there in the early
stages before a lot of damage is done,
but you can think about it as turning
off the faucet. So, as these new amyloid
plaques are produced, you can be um
attacking them with a medicine that
helps to accelerate their clearance.
And oh my goodness, maybe that has a
dramatic effect on long-term decline.
Maybe it reduces those rates by
40, 50, or more percent over a longer
period of time, which means the earlier
we can get them and the better those
medicines are at interacting with those
plaques and the easier it is for the
people to stay on those medicines,
we might be able to wake up in a world
where we live without this disease.
We know that that's possible at GLP-1s
for diabetes and obesity. If you take
them early enough, you will not become
diabetic, you will not become obese. We
know that's possible for cardiovascular
disease. If you start taking a PCSK9
inhibitor
earlier in your life, which by the way,
I think the risk reward is actually even
more favorable than statins in terms of
human health, but we know that you won't
progress to to cardiovascular disease.
The same is true for Alzheimer's.
>> As your business scales up, everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools offering band-aids and
patches, it's unfortunately far too easy
for something to slip through the
cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a powerful
tool designed to simplify and automate
your security work and deliver a single
source of truth for compliance and risk.
There's a reason that Ramp, Cursor, and
Snowflake all use Vanta. It frees them
to focus on building amazing
differentiated products, knowing that
compliance and security are under
control. Learn more at vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack is for asset management firms and
seemingly every new tool and data source
makes the problem even worse, adding
more complexity, more headcount, and
more risk. Ridgeline offers a better way
forward, one unified platform that
automates away that that automates away
that complexity across portfolio
accounting, reconciliation, reporting,
trading, compliance, and more, all at
scale. Ridgeline is revolutionizing
investment management, helping ambitious
firms scale faster, operate smarter, and
stay ahead of the curve. See what
Ridgeline can unlock for your firm.
Schedule a demo at ridgeline.ai.
>> So, up to this point we can imagine a
future world as I know you do, where
everyone can enjoy the benefits of
protective defensive measures in in our
health stack for these three specific
killers. What about cancer? Like cancer
is is the last one that some ways feels
the most visceral uh and and the
scariest.
Uh you know, you hear you have cancer or
someone has cancer, it feels like this
death knell or just terrifying piece of
news.
I think we've made huge strides in
treating cancer, but I'm curious how you
would frame up the problem that is
dealing with preventing, treating
all different kinds of cancer.
>> Well, and and if if
if we are successful in mobilizing
people around a health stack and we can
move from reactively treating a disease
to helping people be as proactive about
their health as possible,
I think the unintended consequence of
that is because as people live longer,
eventually something's going to get us.
And so, I think what we find is like the
incidence of cancer being the issue that
that that that brings us down, the
disease that brings us down, you know,
could rise. And so, I think we would be
remiss to not talk about you know, where
we are with cancer and what needs to be
treated actually really start beating in
a way that matters. Cancer is hard
both because we often identify it too
late. And then when we do, cancer's like
a sneaky devil. You might have an angle
of attack to go and beat that cancer
that presents itself early and as soon
as you're making progress with a
medicine against that angle of attack,
all of a sudden
the cancer has a survival instinct and
it redirects. And now what medicine that
was working incredibly well, that had
shrunk a tumor completely to zero, is is
having no effect because while that
medicine eliminated the cells that were
most vulnerable to the medicine, guess
what? The cells that were left behind,
even if it's just a few, now had the
advantage in growing rapidly and causing
a new set of harm and and setting a
patient on a on a horrific direction.
And so,
it's hard because we tend to identify
cancer too late and then when we do,
it's shifty. Now,
I think that there's there's also the
opportunity for optimism around it. And
I think it gets the topic you and I have
spent some time talking about which is
testing.
And I would say the areas of testing
today that I find most exciting are
across um being proactive and early
identification of the risk. And then
once a cancer emerges, what do we do
about it? And so talk maybe of across
both of those modalities and then come
back to the medicines that are
associated with that.
In terms of identifying cancer early, um
there are companies like Exact Sciences
and Guardant Health that have gone
really hard at breakthrough innovations
to help us screen for colorectal cancer.
Now, of course, we have the gold
standard that's available which um
which is a colonoscopy and I have to go
get one next year.
Um but none of us are ever looking
forward to that and so because it's
something people don't look forward to,
even though everybody should be getting
them and with regular periodicity,
most people don't and I think that's
really tragic because by not getting
your colonoscopy,
um you're putting yourself at risk for
colon cancer which is an incredibly slow
growing cancer and if you just got the
colonoscopy,
like I think we could very much live in
a world today with a very low incidence
of of colorectal cancer. Guardant Health
and Exact Sciences went directly at this
problem. Exact Sciences has a
stool-based test has incredible ability
to predict um
people being at risk of cancer. Same
thing for Guardant Health. Guardant
Health took it to the next step in terms
of knowing that you can go after markers
that would predict colorectal cancer,
but recognizing that the commercial um
model around being able to get people to
not just receive the prescription um for
a stool-based test, but the complexity
of people being able to complete the
test and get that sample back was one
that just could never have the scale as
a simple blood test. And so Guardant
learned from Exact Sciences advancement
and then came up with a next-gen version
that's a simple blood test that you can
get done just about anywhere.
Um and it's an amazing to see that not
only are both of those markets
continuing to grow, but the blood test
is inflecting. That's to me is exciting.
Because it means that again
people care. Doctors care, people care,
they're getting it done, and that means
we're going to be safer and safer from
these.
But I think it's important for people to
realize that not all tests are created
equally.
And to me, when I look at a new
diagnostic in the space, I care deeply
about two metrics. One is
the sensitivity and the other is the
specificity. Specificity. One of them
tells us um
what is of all the people that could
have cancer,
what percentage of those samples are we
actually getting back that is a direct
an accurate diagnosis of cancer. So, if
there are 100 cancers in a sample,
what percentage of them actually get
picked up as cancer? That's the
sensitivity. And then the specificity is
if there's 100 samples
that don't have cancer,
what percentage of those give us a false
positive saying that you have cancer
when you don't. I think both of those
are really important metrics. And at the
same time, I think that there's a whole
other industry around multi-cancer early
detection that's evolving right now and
unfolding right before our eyes. These
are companies like moving from not just
having single cancer tests, but having
multi-cancer tests across
you know, large numbers of of tumor
types that that can be
really dangerous. When you think about
how I described the offensive and
defensive side of the health stack, the
defensive medicines that we can take to
keep us maximally protected, what's not
in there is anything to protect us from
directly from cancer.
But that's because I tried to attack
cancer from the screening perspective. I
made that part of offense. You know,
over time, I think at a minimum people
should be doing a colonoscopy. I think
that the next best-in-class version of
that is colonoscopy married with either
a blood test or a stool-based test with
some regular periodicity to it. And I
think over the next 3 to 5 years,
particularly with how AI uh and the
evolution of these tests are really
converging to help them to move faster
and faster and to be better and better,
um I think we're going to wake up within
the next 5 years with really awesome
multi-cancer early detection tests. And
when we have them, then shame on us if
we're not getting them, and shame on us
if we're that not acting on the
learnings that come from them. And And
this will be obvious, but the earlier we
know that we have a cancer,
the greater the range of options are for
us to go do something about it. And I
think we're finding that across lots of
different cancers, there's opportunities
to have amazing results. Um sadly, my
brother-in-law's father um passed from
multiple myeloma um maybe almost a
decade ago.
If he had been diagnosed today with
multiple myeloma, his outcome, his
prognosis is dramatically different
because not only is our ability to test
and identify that people are developing
cancers getting better, not only do we
have other types of tests that we can
look at what are the mutational drivers
of that cancer that help to connect not
just cancer but the type of cancer to
the best medicine that we have today to
go treat it,
but the medicines are getting better and
better. And so, while cancer medicines
began as many medicines do, which is
pills and injectable biologics,
today we have an entirely new class of
medicines that are these um
uh CAR-T cells that are either cells
that we take out of a patient's body and
arm them with the ability to go attack
the cancer directly, or
companies like Capstan just just came up
with the next-gen version of that where
they can inject on an IV basis that can
go go attack the cancer cells, you know,
directly without having even take cells
out of a patient's body and have that
happen within the patient's own body.
And what we're seeing from these
medicines is dramatic efficacy. So,
we're seeing that they have the
potential
to reduce tumors um by 100% and to do
that in 70% plus of patients and to keep
them at bay for really long periods of
time. And so, while we haven't yet cured
cancer, to me I think the slope of the
line is really exciting. Both from the
testing angle and the earlier we can
identify these cancers and from the
increasing range of modalities and
options that we have to go after and
destroy them.
>> What about imaging? Both skin imaging,
um interesting companies doing that like
Neko, uh deep deep body imaging like
companies like Prenuvo. It's quite
expensive, but as I think about the
health stack as something that we could
do that's preventative, how do you feel
about those technologies which are
relatively new,
um but but do try to take a picture, you
know, if worth a thousand words inside
your body and identify tumor earlier
something like that. Do you think that's
worth it?
>> Yeah, to to me more data is worth it so
long as you could put it in the right
context.
So, when we get the result of a
colorectal cancer test screening test,
we know the context for that and we
actually know whether um we have
something that's useful or not. I think
that the the pictures that we can get
from groups like Prenuvo and others are
powerful because we can see progression
over time and we can use that data and
particularly as AI is going to
increasingly become our medical home,
arming our our our our AI system with
that information will be super helpful.
Um the thing that I worry about though
is as you measure more and more
different dimensions with each of them
having a material false positive rate,
the odds that you come out of that
experience with a false positive that
can be disruptive in life becomes
material.
And so, it's not to discourage anybody
from from doing these, it's just to make
sure that any data that we're
collecting, make sure we put it into the
right context set so that we can have um
um
a framework for how we deal with
whatever information comes from taking
that test. So, for me personally, I'm
not yet pursuing those. Um I I'm very
much focused on areas where if we're
going to go and do a test, it's going to
have a high probability of capturing
what I'm testing for and a low
probability of giving me a false
reading. And I think the more
information that we can um accumulate
with really high fidelity, the better
we'll be at being proactive about our
health.
>> Everything we talked about today was
discovered and developed by incredibly
talented um people, both scientists, um
people in the medical field, but then
business builders that turn these things
into great products and great companies.
Maybe just describe, so as not to take
it for granted, what that process is in
the first place. But back to biology's
complicated, like it is unfreaking
believable we can do the things you've
been describing so far in this
conversation, and that we're on a
trajectory to do even like the
granularity with which we can make
edits, for lack of a better term, into
what's going on in biology is probably
just going to continue to accelerate.
So, I want to understand that process
itself, and then we can talk about how
AI figures into that discovery process.
>> First of all, what are the two key
ingredients for discovery to happen?
>> Yep.
>> Um you need uh scientific instinct
married with with tremendous amounts of
capital. And I think you need both of
those to converge in order for there to
be a breakthrough that allows us to live
healthier and and uh and longer lives.
Um so, let's let's break those into
their pieces. With the science of
medicine and the business of medicine,
cuz I think they're both independently
interesting. Oftentimes, what ends up
happening to discover a medicine is a
scientist um for whatever reason in
their journey gets inspired to spend
their lives uh on trying to crack the
code in a certain disease.
And uh what tends to happen is as you've
identified a a problem that you want to
solve, just like in any, you know,
consumer tech product. What's the
problem we're trying to solve?
Um you then have to go through a
tremendous amount of research to
understand every single thing you can
about that problem, and most
importantly, what could be driving it.
And so, what's developed over time is a
method, probably one of the most
important methods in the history of
humanity, called the scientific method,
um which is the systematic way by which
a scientist moves from focusing on a
problem they want to solve to actually
solving it. And there's a couple of
discrete steps in that scientific
method, um and tremendous amount of
iteration at least to cracking that
code. And so, once you've identified the
problem that you want to solve, the
first step to solving that is
come up with a hypothesis
for what could be driving that disease.
And the way scientists tend to do that
is everything from like the PCSK9
example where scientists are observing
nature. Where are there populations of
people that have an advantage? Okay,
let's go figure that out. That's cool.
Let's go understand it. Um all the way
through to like
combing through um thousands and
thousands of pages of the literature to
understand
what people have tried to crack a code
that still exists today that you want to
go crack. And and that's a a deep
literature review. And so, you know,
fortunately,
um there are tons of papers that exist
on successes or or tiny steps to
successes that exist and are available
for anybody. I think the unfortunate
part of the literature is that what's
often missing is all the failures, which
would be
even more informative than successes.
So,
generally speaking, when a scientist
wants to go solve that problem, they're
either going to observe a population,
they're going to start reading a ton of
research, they're going to probably put
both of those those insights together,
and use that foundation to form their
first hypothesis
for what could be the solution to the
problem.
Okay, so from having a hypothesis, then
the the amazing scientist can then go
figure out what experiments
do I need to run to test that
hypothesis? And even more, what's my
prediction for what should happen
in those experiments? And those are
really important steps because the
design of the experiment and the quality
of the data that comes out from from
that experiment will either confirm your
hypothesis and you move forward, or it
will reject your hypothesis and then you
go back through and you loop to your
next hypothesis and your next set of
experiments, and you continue to loop
and loop and loop. And so what a
scientific method generally looks like
is hypothesis, experimental design,
execution of that experimental design,
review of the data that comes from that
experiment reading out, test that data
result versus your original hypothesis,
either confirm the hypothesis or re-
loop and re-loop and re-loop and
re-loop. And so there's this iterative
process um that tends to begin its
journey from the literature, very
quickly move into what we call in vitro
experiments or or experiments that are
done in uh in petri dishes. Um and as we
start to develop evidence in support for
a hypothesis in cell-based experiments,
it tends to move on to small animals and
then larger animals.
Um and then it gets to the point where
the totality of the data and the
evidence that you've collected from a
hypo- thesis perspective to cell-based
experiments to the animal-based
experiments, you put that all together
in a beautiful package that you present
to regulators and you say,
"I think I've cracked the code. I think
I can move us forward against disease A,
B, or C. And here's the hypothesis that
we had. Here's how we tested it. Here's
all of the data we've generated that
helps me, the scientific team, to
believe that we might have cracked this
code, and now we would like your
approval to go start and agree on what
studies should look like to test how
toxic or how dangerous this breakthrough
could be for somebody. And if we can
show that there's good margin between
really high doses and where that
toxicity starts to come in, and the
doses that we've proven from our
experiments are likely to help somebody
live a longer, better, healthier life,
we want your permission to then go and
actually test that in a person for the
first time.
This is incredible. And in that process
that I just described, you can imagine
most of them fail.
Um but for the ones that do succeed and
get the chance to then go into toxicity
studies and then ultimately into humans,
um those are the ones that get really
excited, but they take years and years
of iterating and looping to go from that
beginning idea through the literature
ultimately to the animal study that
makes you believe you've actually
cracked that code. And then, of course,
from there, this is so much of a
marathon than a sprint, because you've
spent years trying to crack the code,
and now that you have, guess what? Now
you've got another five to seven years
worth of clinical studies you have to do
to prove that in people the idea you had
for a medicine actually has the effect
that it's intended to, and that, per our
discussion earlier, that benefit-to-risk
equation is favorable to the point that
the regulator should should approve it
and let it come to the market.
>> I I have two questions here.
>> Yeah.
>> The process itself is is beautiful and
has driven so much discovery and
progress, not just in medicine, but
scientific method-driven progress
everywhere.
But I'm curious about two dimensions of
shortening that feedback loop or
increasing the velocity of new
discoveries and progress. One is AI.
Uh and the second is what I'll call
citizen pharmacology, which is people
This is, you know, becoming really
prevalent in sort of the pepti- what
I'll call the peptide community. People
love talking about peptides these days.
Um gelatin is a peptide. Collagen is a
peptide. Like like there's there's
there's well-known things that are
peptides, but there's this whole class
of things that we can talk about. But it
seems like if you take to Reddit, for
example, you will find groups of people
organizing to test new things on
themselves outside of the normal, you
know, RCT, FDA-approved process. And if
you shorten it, you probably increase
the danger, but you decrease the time to
learning or something. Um, so so you've
got both of these things as interesting
aspects to me of what will drive forward
progress in drug discovery.
I riff on each, maybe starting with AI.
What what is real already? What do you
think will become real by virtue of the
increasing
um
you know, skill level or reasoning level
of the models?
>> What you're basically describing on the
AI side is is our quest to try to get to
a level of of scientific
superintelligence. Like you can imagine
that from an AI perspective, um if
scientists are armed with an agentic
infrastructure that has a scientific
intelligence that's like at an Einstein
level or multiple of Einstein level,
oh my goodness, like the force
multiplication that can occur between a
superstar scientist armed with that
agentic resource
means that they will do science faster
and with higher probability for lower
cost and have greater impact. So that I
think that's a good It's an important
conceptual framing. And you can imagine
that any
human scientists on their own tinkering
in the way that I just described
scientific method and that wheel of
science spinning and spinning and
spinning, um that us as human scientists
are always going to be constrained by
what we can retain in our human minds
and constrained by
you know, our ability to use our human
hands to go run those experiments. And
so,
you know, there are super talented,
incredibly smart people that can retain
volumes and volumes of scientific
papers.
Can't retain all of them.
AI can. If humans are running
experiments, not AI-driven robotics,
there's just a certain throughput that
is going to be limited by human hands
that would be unlimited if you had an
agentic, robotically driven system.
And so, at the simplest level,
I think AI coming into the discovery of
medicines
is one of the biggest unlocks that we
will see in the history of medicine
because it means that we're no longer
constrained by our minds, we're no
longer constrained by our hands. Um we
can generate not just a few hypotheses
for what the answer can be from the
total sample set of knowledge that
exists.
We can identify all n number of
hypotheses that that that could exist
and should exist, and then figure out
what is the greatest and best next
experiment to go run, run that, and run
those in real time, 24 hours a day, 7
days a week.
And so, the the sheer ability to be more
comprehensive and complete in our
hypothesis set, and then the sheer
ability to run
experimentation at a scale that's
unprecedented, I think practically means
um we are going to be able to speed
breakthroughs from from from timelines
that would typically take 3 to 5 years
to timelines that can take less than a
couple of years. I I think the other
important element when we think about um
AI and its impact on drug development is
um not just the potential of what could
be from that conceptual frame, but where
are we today? And um
I think it's really exciting. So,
today, I would say we're in the early
innings of being able to discover novel
targets, and I would say that we have
not yet um in a systematic way been able
to
discover a target that didn't exist yet.
Um but what we can do is for targets
that we know exist, but that we have
really struggled to be able to develop
medicines against those targets, we're
starting to see that code be broken um
by AI. And and AI being a big force
multiplier to enabling that to happen.
And so what we have today are companies
that can go from um what would
historically been running these massive
screens that are incredibly
time-consuming,
um to doing that screening work in
silico, and can go from model to
molecule in what would have taken a
couple years time in a month.
That's a lot.
>> That's already true today.
>> Already true today. Yep. There there are
there are companies like whether that's
uh Lila Sciences, Enabla, these are
companies that um you can basically ask
the agentic system to develop you a
molecule against a certain target, and
it can crack that code and give us
something that we can work with and
start running in experiments in a
month's time.
>> Is it your impression that this is like
a this is just going to happen? Like
there's there's no major risk left that
AI will not have major impact on this
entire both target and and therapeutic
discovery process? Like is this is this
now are we now on a curve that's just
like feels inevitable to you?
>> to me we're on that curve.
>> When did that flip?
>> Um
>> How recently?
>> Very recently. I think um I think for a
there's for most of my career there's
been some version of machine learning
and the hopes of AI really driving drug
discovery and and um and the development
of of novel medicines against those
discoveries.
And um
and I and I and I always worried that in
order for that paradigm to be true,
it required data that didn't actually
exist in any easy place.
Um
like if all you do is train AI models
based on the research that's available,
you have unfortunately have a paradigm
of a lot of garbage in, garbage out. And
I think one of the things that people
don't appreciate if it when I start
talking to them about you what data
exists is that unfortunately a lot of
the recorded literature is actually
incorrect and there's been tons of
studies that show if you go try to
replicate the experiments that are in
the literature, you don't even get the
same results.
And so definitionally if that is true
and these AI companies don't have a
source of creating novel data
like what what are you going to do? How
are you going to train, right? We've
seen just how powerful LLMs have been
been and how impactful they are across
so many different areas of life because
they've been trained on trillions and
trillions of novel tokens. And so so
data ends up being a big part of what
drives to advanced levels of
intelligence and drives an intelligence
revolution.
Well, the same has to be true in
science. And so the AI companies that I
believe are going to be most set up for
success
are the companies that have incredible
AI talents
um have access to significant amounts of
capital and can combine both of them
with a novel way by which they can
generate science tokens that don't exist
in the public domain. In fact, the
generation of those tokens becomes a big
driver of their moat and not only the
driver of the moat but actually what
enables them to be able to get to an
increasing and increasing level of
scientific intelligence that starts to
separate from that with which can be
achieved with the LLMs without having
the benefit of those tokens. And we're
starting to see that. And so we've got
um
one company that we're really close to
today that's actually starting to show
the bending of that curve and helping us
to see that the idea of getting to
scientific superintelligence
is one that is likely to follow a pretty
deterministic set of scaling laws.
>> I think it was OpenAI that came out with
this announcement maybe working with
Ginkgo or somebody where they've created
like a closed loop automated lab and
discovery process and not just models
but physical world testing as well.
If you close your eyes and think, I
don't know, 5, 7, 10 years from now,
what do you think that what's your best
guess? I know it's hard to predict the
future, but what's your best guess
knowing what you know at what the
discovery process will look like at that
point?
>> I used to be completely automated. You
know, I
was up at Lyla Sciences the other day
and and you go into their labs
and what you see is all of these robotic
arms and you see
Petri dishes that are moving around in
an automated fashion, moving from one
spot to the next spot.
And to me, I think what that means is
the scale of data that's going to be
required to be able to train these
models, the trillions of tokens that are
required, has got to move beyond the
constraints of human hands because it
would just cost so much money to do it
in
human capital
driven manner. It has to be done
robotically and and for that to be done
it has to have an agentic engine behind
it and needs produce data at a scale
that's kind of unprecedented.
And so what I think the future of
discovery looks like is
agentic systems that can drive
robots to do most of the experimentation
that we're doing today with human hands
and I think that's a big unlock for the
ability to
>> That's the top of the funnel, right?
>> Yeah, exactly. And so now
superstar brilliant amazing scientists,
you know, who go down their life journey
to become a scientist that wants to
fight against the disease, wants to
do work that matters,
is no longer going to spend two-thirds
of their career at the side of a bench
pipetting all day long, is going to have
all that time back to point their energy
and their their
their enthusiasm and their optimism
towards trying to figure out
how do I use the systems and machines
that I have and point them in the right
direction at the codes that we should be
cracking. And so that's really enabled
when you have the combination of
brilliant human scientists
force multiplied by the agentic power of
these systems that are being built. And
the more those agentic systems can be
fully automated, where all of that lab
experimentation is happening
in real time and without the need for
human interaction, I think the quicker
and quicker it can scale and I think the
quicker and quicker we can achieve that
level of scientific superintelligence.
>> What do you make of this whole like
peptides plus citizen pharmacology side
of things? I think they just came out
and said there's going to be 14
something peptides that are allowed to
be compounded and
it seems to be like deregulation of
sorts happening in this space. People
say peptides, I think not really knowing
like what that even means. So maybe like
define it and I'm just curious what you
think of this. It really plays to your
earlier point about these generations,
these younger generations especially,
seem to be a new attitude towards all of
this stuff which is like I want to own
this. And part of owning it is a
willingness to take risks that are
beyond above and beyond what like is
mandated or regulated I'm allowed to
take. And so I'm just curious for your
take on this this this subculture is
fascinating to me. You know, you read
about BPC 157 or or these different kind
of I think that's the number all all
these interesting different things that
are being tried. Do you have a take on
on the impact that this will have?
>> I think it's hard to know. The reality
of it is whether it's you know, you look
to the commercial success of GLP-1s or
you look to like the massive movement
around peptides.
Um and it honestly is not even limited
just peptides. Like you can go on Reddit
you can see people are experimenting
across all sorts of different
dimensions.
Um and I think what's happened is we
live in a world where
um
people want to go and figure things out
that help other people and now we've got
platforms that allow people to share
that. And so we see the creation of
groups
that can exist today that couldn't exist
in the future before we had the
technology like we have today and the
communities that can get formed. And so
whether you're looking at it from the
perspective of people coming together
under shared missions, that's happened
throughout the history of of all of
humanity. You know, this is a shared
mission where people are saying like I
want to take my future health into my
own hands and I'm not willing to wait
um for scientists to go take on this
problem independently, for it to go down
the traditional pathways. Like I don't
have the time. I need to know the
answers now because I think for myself
this is going to really matter and
people have a hypothesis and they want
to test it and so they're fighting
really hard to go and get those
hypotheses tested. At the same time that
you see you know, what I would call like
that grassroots peptide movement, you
also have a recognition by the FDA
that we've got to move a lot faster.
That
so long as we have all these frictions
in the system of of going from a
hypothesis for a medicine to the testing
of a medicine in people and then
ultimately an approval, um disease is
going to keep winning.
And so I think we're seeing under under
Marty Makary real leadership to want to
go and try to break down those barriers
and those frictions that are making the
drug discovery and the drug development
process be incredibly time consuming and
incredibly complex.
And some of the manifestation of the the
real world impact of that spans
everything from
you know, Marty brought in an AI system
to help them be able to comb through the
thousands of pages of filings that
sponsors behind medicines have to submit
in uh record time versus the, you know,
armies of people that would have to comb
through that and the days and days of
days of time that are wasted all the way
through to starting to challenge every
aspect of, okay, well, in what settings
do we not need nearly as much evidence
in animals and we can rely on cell-based
experiments? In what settings do we no
longer need multiple redundant studies
that show us the same thing? We can cut
through it with one study anywhere you
look.
We are seeing a movement to be able to
do things more efficient, faster, and
having a greater impact.
>> I've had this experience with you
countless times where I'll introduce you
to somebody, we'll have a conversation
like this, and somewhere between 30
minutes in and and 230 minutes in, the
person has a thought which they rarely
say, which is, "Who the hell is this
guy?"
We we've done the same thing yet again,
which is gone hours into the
conversation without like laying any
sort of groundwork for your background.
Can you just tell us your
>> Sure.
>> personal story a little bit?
>> I've just been super lucky. I um
It's funny now now that you ask
question. I I think
reflecting back on my childhood, I guess
my parents were training me to be a
biotech builder and investor since the
time I was five, but I had like the
greatest childhood ever. Grew up in a
typical American home. My
My dad was this relentless entrepreneur.
He
He was the type of person that worked
harder than anybody I knew, and
he was so all in in any business
endeavor he was pursuing. Like our
entire family was all in on it. Mom was
doing the billing. My brother and I were
in the garage refinishing furniture.
Like
kind of grew up around business by being
around my dad, and he was just such an
inspirational force in my life. Despite
the fact that he was such a relentless
businessman, he was never successful
really at any of those. And I think if
he were sitting here today, and sadly he
passed of Parkinson's over a decade ago.
And one of the things he told me in in
those last few days is that
he felt like he never you know, sort of
stuck with anything long enough to see
it through over the tougher moments, and
we'd just quickly move on to the next
thing and the next thing.
And so I learned that lesson from
watching him in real life and kind of
being in business with him. But you pair
my dad with my mom, who's been an
absolute force in my life. My mom is
this incredible ever optimist, and
from my earliest memories of my mom,
um I can remember her drilling into my
mind,
"We always commit and we never quit."
And that uh she pretty much convinced me
that I could do anything I wanted if I
put my mind to it. And so I feel like um
from my dad I I I I got to experience
and see what it means to take risk and
that you can fail and life goes on.
And from my mom I developed this sense
of resilience and I think both of those
attributes are are very much probably
connected to why when uh I found uh
medicine I fell in love with it. Um
particularly the discovery and the
development of it. Um so from that early
childhood I was the first in my family
that got a chance to to go to college. I
I I graduated from MIT and had just an
amazing experience there. Um for me um
being at MIT and learning more and more
about business and uh economics
um and science and connecting it back to
my early days of of working alongside my
dad and getting a chance to at the time
not realizing but put money into some of
the deals that my dad was doing. I could
put $2 into a rocking chair that we
bought. And if we sold it for 200 bucks,
I thought that was amazing and if we
didn't sell it, I was pissed.
I didn't realize I was learning in these
early days about uh risk and reward from
from my dad. And then when you get to a
place like MIT and you start to see um
the black and white version of the
equations associated with that, it was a
it was a real kind of, you know, um
major step forward for me that inspired
me to want to then go on to to New York
City and and to Wall Street. Um I
thought to myself, "No better place to
really learn about business and how
capital connects to business and what it
takes than to come to the epicenter of
that here in New York City."
And um
and so I end up at Merrill Lynch and and
had some amazing mentors that were
really inspiring to me. I had two major
stops at Merrill, one on the capital
market side, and then after doing that
for a while, I wanted to go see how
these crazy securities, derivative
securities traded. And so, I had a
chance to move to the Merrill Lynch
derivatives desk. And um
I think what was just so fun for me
about reflecting back on that time is I
actually never picked biotech. But when
I got moved over to the to the
derivative desk, um I was just put into
biotech. I was assigned to the biotech
subgroup of the derivatives desk and
knew nothing about it, but I fell in
love with it so quickly
because the risk-reward in that setting
was about life and death. And when I was
looking at what was going on and the
companies that I needed to be
understanding to be able to price risk,
it was like wild to me what was going
on. I I had no idea about this entire
field of the development of medicine.
I had no real appreciation for just the
sheer capital that's required to move it
forward. And here I am, through total
serendipity, I find myself at the
epicenter of needing to understand these
companies deeply enough to price risk
and getting a chance to be in front of
all of the buy-side investors that are
building and backing these companies
um that I became inspired by the work
that they were all doing.
I was so inspired by it that in my seat
I got to be out with these people a lot
because they were curious what activity
was going on the trading desk and what
it meant for them and their investments.
And I was always interested in learning
more about how do they build and back
these companies. And what I came to
quickly realize in talking to all these
people from all these different
investment firms was that
their strategies were actually very
similar. And so, I said, "Huh."
You know, knowing what I know about
derivative securities and that I had
learned from my my days at MIT, my time
at Merrill Lynch,
and recognizing that most people in the
life science investment world were just
using equity securities,
it struck me that there was a better way
to either to build these portfolios and
select securities. Ways in which we
might be able to either maintain the
type of return that they needed for
their investors but at lower risk or
maintain the risk and produce a higher
rate of return. And so I went off and I
spent my nights and weekends
writing this beautiful deck
that I thought had really cracked the
code on what portfolios needed to look
like in the life sciences sector would
allow a scale of capital to get behind
these amazing medicines
that had never before been achieved. And
when it was done, I could not wait to
send it out. I remember telling my
roommate Tom was like, "Tom, I'm ready
to send this out. I'm going to send it
to everybody and you just watch. My
phone is going to be ringing off the
hook. Everybody in the world is going to
want to do this and put this strategy to
work and my days at Merrill Lynch are
numbered. I'm going to be out of here
soon enough."
I sent it out. Crickets. I didn't get
one single response and I couldn't
believe it. I was like, "How does nobody
want to do this? How does nobody want to
run a portfolio that can produce
the same amount of reward but with lower
risk or produce more reward for same
didn't make any sense to me." And um
and so it it turns out that uh
months went by before my phone finally
rang but then one day it did and it was
um
to who just today a dear friend of mine
and mentor Jeff Kaplan who was the head
of trading at that time in 2005 a tiny
little firm named Deerfield Management.
In its early days where Jim Flynn had
just taken over as general partner. And
Jim was a really unique leader of
Deerfield because one of the things that
I learned from spending time with him
was he obsessed over what is every which
way by which our investment firm can
have every type of advantage in
producing our returns so that we can
attract more and more capital and have
more and more impact on the future of
human health. How do we create
advantages
that would allow Deerfield to become the
epicenter of capital to move innovation.
And uh
I got lucky. I found like the one person
in the world who cared about the things
that I had to say. And after going and
presenting on my ideas there for what at
that point, which was a tiny team of
about 12 people,
I got hired to join Deerfield.
And I spent then the next 15 years of my
career helping to build Deerfield into
that dream state of being the go-to
source of capital for the industry.
I didn't realize it at the time, but I I
guess I was 24 when I joined.
And I think the next youngest person at
the firm was probably 40.
These were all people that were super
seasoned, had incredible experience. And
I think I was a bit of a novelty in the
room because I would ask like almost a
thousand questions every single day. And
these amazing people would spend the
time to teach me. And so the
apprenticeship that I was able to get
from my time at Deerfield was like
nothing I could have ever imagined.
And and I was all in. Like I I I I like
was fully in love
with investing in building and backing
anything, whether that was a medical
device, a diagnostic, a medicine,
anything that could move human health
forward. That spanned everything from
helping these companies figure out how
to finance their their innovation all
the way through to spending time with
our team on on how do we design and help
a company design a clinical study in a
way that would give them an advantage to
showing something that's really special.
And that that stayed true for about the
first decade of my time at at Deerfield.
And then something just really really
tragic happened.
You know, at Deerfield we were
constantly building capabilities and
constantly wanting new sources of data.
And one of the sources of data that we
had that we had acquired and we had
built out was now taking us deeper and
deeper into understanding a patient's
journey
from the moment where they are
prescribed the medicine to where they
actually get the insurance approval to
get that medicine and then how long they
stay on the medicine. And what I was
quickly learning about a decade into my
obsession for all the amazing work that
was going on around me
is that, yes, medicine only works if
people take it, but they weren't.
And that was a really dark period for me
in my own journey, because as I was
reflecting on
um all the time and effort and capital
that I was a part of putting behind
innovation, it became pretty quickly
evident to me that you have to start
asking the questions, well, for what
purpose? If people need to be on a
medicine for the rest of their lives,
and they're taking it for a year on
average, and then quitting,
are we just optimizing for, you know,
maximum expected returns, but no impact
on public health?
Um I had been married at the time. I got
married in 2012, so I'd been married for
some number of years. I started thinking
about
you know, what what what does my life
mean, and like what
how am I as a partner to my wife if I'm
spending my time just focused on making
money, and not actually doing something
that can move the world forward?
We had had our first baby at that point,
and I'm reflecting on just how impactful
my parents were in terms of teaching me,
and uh what they armed me with as I went
forward. And I was like, well, what
lessons would I be teaching my
daughters?
Um and and I got to the point where like
the combination of thinking across all
of those dimensions made me to question
like,
am I just doing the wrong thing?
Um do I need to go in a different
direction? And um the answer was no. No,
I what I needed to do was take sort of
the innate entrepreneurial energy that
comes from my upbringing and from my
childhood, the skill set that I was able
to develop from this amazing uh
apprenticeship that I had at Deerfield,
and be able to point those talents not
just at the discovery side of being able
to have invention, but be able to point
that at um the impact that's required to
actually see these medicines have the
impact that they're intended that
they're intended to have. And a lot of
that was my inspiration for leaving
Deerfield and wanting to go build Bridge
well. And I'm so fortunate because one
of one of our dear friends, Brian
Kreiter, who's an incredible
uh, person. He's an amazing husband,
father, incredibly talented business
person, was also just as inspired as I
was about where we found ourselves in
the world and the type of impact that
could happen but wasn't yet happening.
He was the chief operating officer for
for Bridgewater.
Um,
I was co-co-running Deerfield and we
decided to spend some really deep time
trying to put our lessons learned um,
and our insights together and try to
design from a first principles
perspective, what would the operating
system for human health look like? And
what could we do to be the driving force
behind making that happen? How could we
be the force that is not just okay with
a once-in-a-decade $100 billion GLP-1
revolution, but how do we be the force
behind making sure that this
once-in-a-lifetime trillion-dollar
cost-savings revolution happens because
we can be the force behind medicines
having their moment where they could
prevent diseases that are already
preventable today. And that really
inspired us and and um, after kind of
seeing it, we couldn't unsee it and then
we spent many more months thinking
about, well, how would we do it? How
would we build it? And um,
and that became Bridge well, where where
I'm spending my time today and and we're
having the the most fun that we've ever
had.
>> And if you could sum up the investment
approach in its simplest form, how would
you do it?
>> I think I'd just bring you into what we
call our morning meeting. So, um,
at Bridge well, we get together the team
every morning from 9:15 until we're
done. And I want you to imagine like so
you're in this room, you've seen it, so
So, in this room, it's a big room, and
we've got an
an amazingly talented team of
scientists, biostatisticians, commercial
experts, AI experts, investors,
operating people, traders, structured
finance people. Like, we have a pretty
significant team, and everybody on the
team has some special superpower that
they contribute to us trying to figure
out what companies have amazing
technologies that we should be getting
behind and backing and helping them to
go as fast as possible to have human
impact that cuts at some of those big
unlocks that would be the difference
between having something and having it
have its impact. And then as we get to
look across the ecosystem of everything
that is moving forward today,
where do we also see the major gaps
where medicine should exist, but they
don't yet?
Um and so to me, being in that room is
the most fun part of the day, and I
think it um very much epitomizes what
our philosophy is, which is that in
order to be a great backer of
innovation,
we essentially need to be able to answer
three questions.
Are the innovations we're getting behind
going to work or fail? Are they
ultimately going to be relevant from a
market potential or not? Um and is there
a way by which we could back this
company, invest in this company, you
know, enable this company move forward
faster with capital um that produces a
return that's attractive enough for the
investors that are trusting us with
their capital. And so,
um we want to bring together the most
talented minds at each of those
different areas of domain expertise to
give us an advantage that we can uh in a
replicable manner deploy day after day
after day to both be backing the
companies that should be moving forward
faster and making exist the companies
that don't, but should.
>> It's an incredible room to be in. It
makes me wonder like if everyone could
design their own room to be in from 9:15
to whatever every day, it'd be a fun
exercise. I know you're also a a
Uh we'll save that discussion for for
another time.
Unfortunately, we're out of time. I
could literally I mean, I I have pages
of notes. You and I do this every time
we talk. We set aside an hour. We should
have set We should set aside a day.
Um but I'll I'll go to my traditional
closing question for this session, and
I'm sure we'll do this many times
together over the years to come. What is
the kindest thing that anyone's ever
done for you?
>> Uh that's that's my wife. Um look, I'm
I'm pretty darn hard at it every day. Uh
every minute of the day I can be hard at
it, and um you know, that that drives me
to different levels of stress, and and I
could be uh so myopically deep down
trying to figure something out that I
kind of just lose track of everything
else around me.
Um and my wife, Cass, has this amazing
ability to just know when I'm at that
like just on the precipice of that
breaking point, and she could find some
way to distract me, make me laugh, and
kind of get me back to neutral. And I
think um I think that's a big force and
an advantage for me because
I don't have to worry about going so
hard because I've got a partner that's
right there by my side that can help
make sure that um I could not just be
going after things I really care about
doing, but uh having some fun along the
way.
>> Knowing Cass, I know that's true. Alex,
thanks so much for your time.
>> Thank you. Had a great time.
>> Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. It's leaking through a
thousand tiny decisions nobody's
watching. Ramp puts guardrails on
spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm.
Every investment firm is unique, and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street,
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity use
WorkOS to become enterprise ready
overnight, not in months. Visit
workos.com to skip the unglamorous
infrastructure work and focus on your
product.